\input texinfo @c -*-texinfo-*-
@c %**start of header
@setfilename inetutils.info
@settitle Network utilities
@c %**end of header

@include version.texi

@c Define new indices for file names and options.
@defcodeindex fl
@defcodeindex op

@c Put everything in one index (arbitrarily chosen to be the concept index).
@syncodeindex fl cp
@syncodeindex fn cp
@syncodeindex ky cp
@syncodeindex op cp
@syncodeindex pg cp
@syncodeindex vr cp

@set Francois Fran@,{c}ois

@dircategory Network applications
@direntry
* Netutils: (netutils).       Network utilities.
@end direntry

@dircategory Individual utilities
@direntry
* network(net) utilities: (netutils).           Network utilities.
* ftp: (netutils)ftp invocation.                File Transfer Protocol.
* ftpd: (netutils)ftpd invocation.              FTP Daemon.
* inetd: (netutils)inetd invocation.            Internet super-server.
* ping: (netutils)ping invocation.              Packets to network hosts.
* rcp: (netutils)rcp invocation.                Strip non-directory suffix.
* rexecd: (netutils)rexecd invocation.          Remote execution server.
* rlogin: (netutils)rlogin invocation.          Remote login.
* rlogind: (netutils)rlogind invocation.        Remote login server.
* rsh: (netutils)rsh invocation.                Remote shell.
* rshd: (netutils)rshd invocation.              Remote shell server.
* logger: (netutils)logger invocation.          Logger.
* syslogd: (netutils)syslogd invocation.        Syslog server.
* talk: (netutils)talk invocation.              Talk client.
* talkd: (netutils)talkd invocation.            Talk server.
@c * telnet: (netutils)telnet invocation.          User interface to TELNET.
@c * telnetd: (netutils)telnetd invocation.        Telnet server.
* tftp: (netutils)tftp invocation.              Trivial FTP.
@c * tftpd: (netutils)tftpd invocation.            TFTP server.
@c * uucpd: (netutils)uucpd invocation.            Unix to Unix Copy.
@c * whois: (netutils)whois invocation.            Whois user interface.
@end direntry

@copying
This file documents the Network utilities.

Copyright (C) 1994, 95, 96, 2000, 2001, 2007 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

@quotation
Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the section entitled ``GNU
Free Documentation License''.
@end quotation
@end copying

@titlepage
@title @code{netutils}
@subtitle A set of network utilities
@subtitle for version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}
@author Alain Magloire et al.

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage


@ifnottex
@node Top
@top Network utilities

@insertcopying
@end ifnottex

@cindex network utilities

This manual documents version @value{VERSION} of the Network utilities.

@menu
* Introduction::                Caveats, overview, and authors.
* ftp::                         File Transfer Protocol.
* ftpd::                        FTP Daemon.
* inetd::                       Interner super-server.
* ping::                        Packets to network hosts.
* rcp::                         Strip non-directory suffix.
* rexecd::                      Remote execution server.
* rlogin::                      Remote login.
* rlogind::                     Remote login server.
* rsh::                         Remote shell.
* rshd::                        Remote shell server.
* logger::                      Logger.
* syslogd::                     Syslog server.
* talk::                        Talk client.
* talkd::                       Talk server.
@c * telnet::                      User interface to TELNET.
@c * telnetd::                     Telnet server.
* tftp::                        Trivial FTP.
@c * tftpd::                       TFTP server.
@c * uucpd::                       Unix to Unix Copy.
@c * whois::                       Whois user interface.
* Reporting Bugs::              How to report bugs.
* GNU Free Documentation License:: The license for this manual.
* Concept Index::               Index of concepts.
* Index::                       Index of commands, options and variables.
@end menu


@node Introduction
@chapter Introduction
@cindex introduction

The individual utilities was originally derived from the 4.4BSDLite2
distribution.  Many features were integrated from NetBSD, OpenBSD,
FreeBSD and GNU/Linux, the merges were done by a group of dedicated
hackers (in no particular order): Jeff Bailey, Marcus Brinkmann,
Michael Vogt, Bernhard Rosenkraenzer, Kaveh R. Ghazi, NIIBE Yutaka,
Nathan Neulinger, Jeff Smith, Dan Stromberg, David O'Shea, Frederic
Goudal, Gerald Combs, Joachim Gabler, Marco D'Itri.

Certain options are available in all these programs.  Rather than
writing identical descriptions for each of the programs, they are
described here.  (In fact, every GNU program accepts (or should
accept) these options.)

Many of these programs take arbitrary strings as arguments.  In those
cases, @samp{--help} and @samp{--version} are taken as these options
only if there is one and exactly one command line argument.

@table @samp
@item --help
@opindex --help
@cindex help, online
Print a usage message listing all available options, then exit
successfully.

@item -V
@itemx --version
@opindex --version
@cindex version number, finding
Print the version number, then exit successfully.
@end table


@include ftp.texi
@include ftpd.texi
@include inetd.texi
@include ping.texi
@include rcp.texi
@include rexecd.texi
@include rlogin.texi
@include rlogind.texi
@include rsh.texi
@include rshd.texi
@include logger.texi
@include syslogd.texi
@include talk.texi
@include talkd.texi
@c @include telnet.texi
@c @include telnetd.texi
@include tftp.texi
@c @include tftpd.texi
@c @include uucpd.texi
@c @include whois.texi


@node Reporting Bugs
@chapter Reporting bugs
@cindex Bugs, reporting

Email bug reports to @email{bug-inetutils@@gnu.org}.  Be sure to
include the word ``inetutils'' somewhere in the ``Subject:'' field.

@table @samp
@item @command{syslogd}
     The effects of multiple selectors are sometimes not intuitive.  For exam-
     ple ``mail.crit,*.err'' will select ``mail'' facility messages at the
     level of ``err'' or higher, not at the level of ``crit'' or higher.
@end table

@node GNU Free Documentation License
@appendix GNU Free Documentation License
@include fdl.texi

@page
@node Concept Index
@unnumbered Concept Index

This is a general index of all issues discussed in this manual, with the
exception of the commands and command-line options.

@printindex cp

@page
@node Index
@unnumbered Index

This is an alphabetical list of all commands, command-line
options, and environment variables.

@printindex fn

@contents
@bye
